.\"Created with GNOME Manpages Editor
.\"http://sourceforge.net/projects/gmanedit2
.\"Replace <program> with the program name, x with the Section Number
.TH mkddocu 1 "2014-05-15" "" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
mkddocu  \- This command generates software documentations with \fBmkd\ (1)\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkddocu \fIproject\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B mkddocu
The command \fBmkddocu\fR linked to \fBmkd\fR, extracts the special comments marked by a \fBbenchmark\fR character.
Example : 
.B //D
this is a php or C comment, with a 'D' benchmark.
.br
If some C files exist, then \fBmkddocu\fR will create a global header for the project, with the benchmark character 'H'.
.br
.B Benchmarks :
.br
\fBD\fR Extract the general documentation.
.br
\fBH\fR Extract comments from C files to create the global header file.
.br
\fBP\fR Creates the file useful for maintainers with General descriptions.
.br
\fBT\fR Creates the file useful for maintainers with the directives of tests.
.TP
.I project 
This is the project name to create or update files the directory 'maintenance/project_name'
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fB\ 0\fR End - when the command is complete or at the end of the help execution. (syntax)
.br
\fB-1\fR \fBmkd\fR command is not found.
.br
\fB-2\fR Command stopped. The \fBbackup\fR is not performed.
.br
\fB-3\fR Command stopped. The parameter \fIproject\fR is empty.
.SH EXAMPLES
The self-documentation of this command is created by the original file mkddocu.sh in source files. Execute the command\ :
.br
.B \fBmkddocu.sh mkddocu\fR 
.br
The directory 
.B maintenance/mkddocu
contains also the documents.
.br

The directories of projects are generated by series and are stored in the directory \fBmaintenance/Backups\fR when the number of the series reaches the limit
.I BACKUPSMAX
.br
To test them, limit the value of
.I BACKUPSMAX
at 2. (3 backups by serie)
.SH NOTES
.I BACKUPSMAX
is normally fixed at 9 however you can modify this value by editing the file /usr/bin/mkddocu.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkd(1)
xgettext(1)
poedit(1)
.br
file:////usr/share/doc/mkddocu/
.br
file:////usr/share/doc/mkd/
.SH "DOWNLOADS"
http://edeulo.free.fr
.SH AUTHORS
Clara, JPL, Luca
.br
Email : http://edeulo.free.fr/contacts/formmail.php
.SH BUGS
Bug reports :  http://edeulo.free.fr/phpBB3/viewforum.php?f=14


