.\" FILE manuals Update_cpp_en.3.txt to edit in UTF-8 format
.\" (en) English version with comment pre-codage M
.\" (fr) Version française avec le pré-codage de commentaire F. (Pas fini)
.\" Mise à jour par JPL le 6 avril 2013
.\" .


.TH CPP_ 3 "6 April 2013"
.SH NAME
cpp_ \- Extract coded informations from C, c++, php source files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
#include "/usr/include/mkd/version.h" // IMPORTANT: Compilation directives
.TP
#include "/usr/include/mkd/cpp.h"
.TP
int cpp_(FILE * pfdoc, FILE * pnfile);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
The cpp_ function reads the source file (pnfile) transmitted from the calling function, and decodes the comments pre-encoded in lines or blocks of style C, c++ or php files, and writing this comments in a target file (pfdoc).
.TP
Pre-coded characters are defined in a external global table 'Codes':
.IP 
The golbal external variables are
.B 'Codes'
and
.B 'Options':
.TP
.I extern char codes[]; 
They must be defined in the calling function;
char codes[5] = {0,0,0,0,0}; table of 5 ASCII characters on 8 bits. 
The comment are extracted if the comment begin with one of thiese characters. 
.TP 
.I extern unsigned char n,s,t;
They must be defined in the calling function; 
unsigned char n=0,s=0,t=0;
.TP
.IP \fB\-n\fB
The transcript is preceded by line number. This allows to easily reach the commented line.
.IP \fB\-s\fB
Add the comment to the terminal or Konsole to use shell redirections > , >> , or || etc.
.IP \fB\-t\fB
With the t option only the commented text is copied. Without the t option the entire line or block is copied. The t option permit to generate directly exploitable and publishable documents. 

.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
Return 0 in case of success in konsole version, nothing with gtkmm.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.PP
All UNIX / LINUX systems with gcc

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
JP LOUYOT, Clara JIMENEZ.
.TP
contact: http://edeulo.free.fr/contacts/formmail.php

.SH RESOURCES
If your product is designed to work with any graphical application, then the file cpp.c++ is ready to use gtkmm. (See also mkdcppw)

.SH FILES
.PP
cpp.c++
.TP
/usr/include/mkd/ : mkd header files
.TP
/usr/src/mkd/ : mkd source files

.SH NOTES
.PP
Not ready for read and decode files including in sources files

.SH BUGS
.PP
Bugs Report: http://edeulo.free.fr/phpBB3/index.php 

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
Documents generator mkd(1)
.TP
http://edeulo.free.fr/wiki/index.php/Projet_mkd/Fichiers_en_développement

